---
layout: post
title: First Blog Post
---

Data science is a relatively new and revolutionary field. I think that although many of us come from a traditional "stats" background, we think of data science as just another branch of statistics. It is my understanding that although they are complimentary in many ways, the starting point and scope of data science is quite different. Data science is as it implies: the science of data. The scope of data science is anything that has to do with the data itself. This includes data collection, cleaning, exploration, analysis, and presentation/visualization. To me, being a data scientist is being able to do everything in relation to data, whether it is for statistics or not.

As I mentioned previously, I believe that the major duties of the data scientist are: collection, cleaning, exploration, analysis, and presentation/visualization of the data. The data scientist must have a wide variety of knowledge in different areas to be able to excel at these roles. They must be proficient in programming, applied statistics, a variety of softwares, product knowledge, and mathematics. The data scientist must be able to bring together all of these different disciplines to find data-driven solutions to problems.

Data scientists and statisticians share a wide variety of qualities. Both professions originate from the field of statistics. They both have a tool belt filled with statistical theory, applied statistics, communication, and business skills. I think that the biggest difference is in their scope; a data scientist is more focused on the data and the product or problem itself, whereas a statistician is more focused on the methodology, modeling, analysis, and communication. I think that the data scientist's scope follows the data, which brings in the coding and manipulation of data. The statistician is more concerned with the collection of data and then the analysis/modeling and presentation.

I see myself as more of a statistician, because up to this point in my academic career I have found that I just don't care for the nitty-gritty programming that seems essential to the data scientist. In fact, I am taking this particular class in an attempt to strengthen my programming knowledge, because it is an area where I feel I need to improve. I think everyone in a quantitative field, whether or not you are a statistician or data scientist, should learn statistics and programming. I am not sure whether I will go on to become a data scientist or statistician, but I think that the knowledge needed for these careers is knowledge that will help me in any sort of quantitative field.

