---
layout: post
title: Second Blog Post
---

The only actual *programming* course that I had coming into this course was ST555, where we learned SAS. In all honesty, when I found out I had to take a SAS class I was pretty confused, because I didn't know that SAS was really all that popular. I guess when SAS was developed by someone who went to your university, you ought to learn SAS. Not to mention the fact that the statistics department is located at **SAS** hall...

I really prefer R over SAS. I found SAS to be much more clunky and much less trendy than R. SAS has a lot of great features, like formatting and labelling and `SGPLOT`, but I just prefer R. RStudio is a really useful interface; I like the way it allows you to see objects, paths, help, packages, plots, etc in separate tabs. SAS also allowed us to do this, but it definitely wasn't as nice. I also like how supportive the community of R users are; it seems much easier to find help for whatever I need for R. I remember the SAS Community website not being very useful every time I looked to get some help. Maybe this is because it is a proprietary software, and not open source like R. The fact that R is open source is really cool too. I feel like there is a package out there for whatever you want to do in R. In short, I really don't miss SAS at all.

I don't think R is a particularly hard language to learn; learning something like C or Java sounds much more daunting. I had absolutely NO exposure to R in my undergrad until my last year, when I audited a 700-level course in R from a professor that my dad was friends with in the hospitality department. I didn't really learn the language, functionality, or even the syntax really; I just learned the machine learning and regression functions and put them to work. After somehow performing well in the class, that professor told my father that he had a research project on a hotel rooms cancellation data set in R that he could get me in on so I could complete my senior research project. In order to complete the project, I had to learn how to read data in and do very basic manipulations so I could run the machine learning algorithms on it. I learned a lot on my own (after relatively little head-banging) and in retrospect it was much easier to learn than SAS. Hopefully this course will give me an opportunity to learn R in a more structured fashion.
